Section 1
glaucoma- a condition of increased pressure within the eyeball, causing gradual loss of sight.
flowstone- rock deposited as a thin sheet by precipitation from flowing water.
pilgrim- a person who journeys to a sacred place for religious reasons.
flue- a duct for smoke and waste gases produced by a fire, a gas heater, a power station, or other fuel-burning installation
translucent- (of a substance) allowing light, but not detailed shapes, to pass through; semi-transparent
alabaster- a translucent form of gypsum or calcite, typically white, often carved into ornaments.
decanting-
dreg-
Section 2
gully- a ravine formed by the action of water.
enshroud- envelop completely and hide from view
mote- a tiny piece of a substance; a speck
temporal- relating to worldly as opposed to spiritual affairs; secular
gryke-
transom- the flat surface forming the stern of a boat.
shoal- a large number of fish swimming together
cauterized-
autism- a developmental disorder of variable severity that is characterized by difficulty in social interaction and communication and by restricted or repetitive patterns of thought and behaviour.
vestibular- relating to a vestibule, particularly that of the inner ear, or more generally to the sense of balance
chronicle- a factual written account of important or historical events in the order of their occurrence
declination- the angular distance of a point north or south of the celestial equator
matrix- the cultural, social, or political environment in which something develops
rotunda- a round building or room, especially one with a dome.
Section 3
pipeclay- a fine white clay, used especially for making tobacco pipes or for whitening leather.
peril- serious and immediate danger
sconce- a candle holder that is attached to a wall with an ornamental bracket
keel- the lengthwise timber or steel structure along the base of a ship, supporting the framework of the whole, in some vessels extended downwards as a ridge to increase stability.
fresco- a painting done rapidly in watercolour on wet plaster on a wall or ceiling, so that the colours penetrate the plaster and become fixed as it dries.
breakfront- a piece of furniture having the line of its front broken by a curve or angle
effigy- a sculpture or model of a person
bogfolk-
discalced- denoting or belonging to one of several strict orders of Catholic friars or nuns who go barefoot or are shod only in sandals.
firedrake- (in Germanic mythology) a dragon.
sectarian- denoting or concerning a sect or sects
deranged- mad; insane
Section 4
basalt- a dark fine-grained volcanic rock that sometimes displays a columnar structure, typically composed largely of plagioclase with pyroxene and olivine.
gprge-
bluff- an attempt to deceive someone into believing that one can or is going to do something
pipsissewa- a North American plant of the wintergreen family, with whorled evergreen leaves.
piedmont- a gentle slope leading from the foot of mountains to a region of flat land.
madacam-
mastic- an aromatic gum or resin that exudes from the bark of a Mediterranean tree, used in making varnish and chewing gum and as a flavouring
Section 5
skein- a length of thread or yarn, loosely coiled and knotted.
coagulate- (of a fluid, especially blood) change to a solid or semi-solid state
provenance- the place of origin or earliest known history of something
penitent- feeling or showing sorrow and regret for having done wrong; repentant
cheroot- a cigar with both ends open.
obsidian- a hard, dark, glasslike volcanic rock formed by the rapid solidification of lava without crystallization.
meconium- the dark green substance forming the first faeces of a newborn infant.
Section 6
bracken- a tall fern with coarse lobed fronds, which occurs worldwide and can cover large areas.
emaciation- the state of being abnormally thin or weak
lacquered-
stropping-
FIXrachiticFIX-
lepers-
ambush- a surprise attack by people lying in wait in a concealed position
anointing-
evoke- bring or recall (a feeling, memory, or image) to the conscious mind
quoits-
changeling- a child believed to have been secretly substituted by fairies for the parents' real child in infancy.
commune- a group of people living together and sharing possessions and responsibilities
Section 7
sapper- a soldier responsible for tasks such as building and repairing roads and bridges, laying and clearing mines, etc.
viaduct- a long bridge-like structure, typically a series of arches, carrying a road or railway across a valley or other low ground.
embankment- a wall or bank of earth or stone built to prevent a river flooding an area
parsible-
entities-
idiom- a group of words established by usage as having a meaning not deducible from those of the individual words (e.g. over the moon, see the light).
Section 8
woad- a yellow-flowered European plant of the cabbage family. It was formerly widely grown in Britain as a source of blue dye, which was extracted from the leaves after they had been dried, powdered, and fermented.
FIXrunicFIX-
motifs-
truncheon- a short, thick stick carried as a weapon by a police officer.
stile- an arrangement of steps that allows people but not animals to climb over a fence or wall.
phalanx- a body of troops or police officers standing or moving in close formation
forge- make or shape (a metal object) by heating it in a fire or furnace and hammering it
catamite- a boy kept for homosexual practices.
horde- a large group of people
sedge- a grasslike plant with triangular stems and inconspicuous flowers, growing typically in wet ground. Sedges are widely distributed throughout temperate and cold regions.
Section 9
port-cochere-
privet- a shrub of the olive family, with small white heavily scented flowers and poisonous black berries.
chattel- (in general use) a personal possession.
Section 10
formica- a hard durable plastic laminate used for worktops, cupboard doors, and other surfaces
cistern- a tank for storing water, especially one supplying taps or as part of a flushing toilet.
hydraulic- denoting or relating to a liquid moving in a confined space under pressure
mendicant- given to begging.
palimpsest- a manuscript or piece of writing material on which later writing has been superimposed on effaced earlier writing.
intestate- not having made a will before one dies
Section 11
begonia- a herbaceous plant of warm climates, the flowers of which have brightly coloured sepals but no petals. Numerous cultivars are grown for their flowers or striking foliage.
hasp- a slotted hinged metal plate forming part of a fastening for a door or lid, fitted over a loop and secured by a pin or padlock
serrated- having or denoting a jagged edge; sawlike
corroded-
krugerrand- a South African gold coin with a portrait of President Kruger on the obverse.
Section 12
footlocker- a small trunk or storage chest.
laved-
sumptuous- splendid and expensive-looking
bonded-whiskey-
Section 13
balustrade- a railing supported by balusters, especially one forming an ornamental parapet to a balcony, bridge, or terrace.
pall- a cloth spread over a coffin, hearse, or tomb.
decoy- a bird or mammal, or an imitation of one, used by hunters to attract other birds or mammals
rucksack- a bag with shoulder straps which allow it to be carried on someone's back, typically made of a strong, waterproof material and widely used by hikers.
Section 14
bivouacked-
threadbare- (of cloth, clothing, or soft furnishings) becoming thin and tattered with age
buddha- a title given to the founder of Buddhism, Siddartha Gautama (c.563–c.483 BC). Born a prince in what is now Nepal, he renounced wealth and family to become an ascetic, and after achieving enlightenment while meditating, taught all who came to learn from him.
secular- not connected with religious or spiritual matters
gullied-
middens-
kudzu- a quick-growing East Asian climbing plant with reddish-purple flowers, used as a fodder crop and for erosion control.
transit- the carrying of people or things from one place to another
Section 15
cairn- a mound of rough stones built as a memorial or landmark, typically on a hilltop or skyline.
patterans-
sundries-
notion- a conception of or belief about something
dessicated-
culvert- a tunnel carrying a stream or open drain under a road or railway.
fey- giving an impression of vague unworldliness or mystery
predicate- the part of a sentence or clause containing a verb and stating something about the subject (e.g. went home in John went home).
caustic- able to burn or corrode organic tissue by chemical action
quadrant- each of four quarters of a circle.
mattock- an agricultural tool shaped like a pickaxe, with an adze and a chisel edge as the ends of the head.
bolus- a small rounded mass of a substance, especially of chewed food at the moment of swallowing
Section 16
corrugate- contract or cause to contract into wrinkles or folds
harrowtrough-
ledgerbook-
magnolia- a tree or shrub with large, typically creamy-pink or -white, waxy flowers.
spire- a tapering conical or pyramidal structure on the top of a building, typically a church tower.
provision- the action of providing or supplying something for use
enroute-
jerry-jug-
slough- a swamp.
serpentine- of or like a serpent or snake
verdigris- a bright bluish-green encrustation or patina formed on copper or brass by atmospheric oxidation, consisting of basic copper carbonate.
Section 17
palladian- relating to or denoting the neoclassical style of Andrea Palladio, in particular with reference to the phase of English architecture from c.1715, when there was a revival of interest in Palladio and his English follower, Inigo Jones, and a reaction against the baroque.
lintel- a horizontal support of timber, stone, concrete, or steel across the top of a door or window.
myriad- a countless or extremely great number of people or things
Section 18
disinterred-
cholera- an infectious and often fatal bacterial disease of the small intestine, typically contracted from infected water supplies and causing severe vomiting and diarrhoea.
desolation- a state of complete emptiness or destruction
careen- turn (a ship) on its side for cleaning, caulking, or repair.
slag- stony waste matter separated from metals during the smelting or refining of ore
vigilant- keeping careful watch for possible danger or difficulties
okra- a plant of the mallow family with long ridged seed pods, native to the Old World tropics.
iodine- the chemical element of atomic number 53, a non-metallic element forming black crystals and a violet vapour.
tidewrack-
isocline- a line on a diagram or map connecting points of equal gradient or inclination.
sepulchre- a small room or monument, cut in rock or built of stone, in which a dead person is laid or buried.
Section 19
sheer-rail-
transom- the flat surface forming the stern of a boat.
davit- a small crane on board a ship, especially one of a pair for suspending or lowering a lifeboat.
turnbuckle- a coupling with internal screw threads used to connect two rods, lengths of boat's rigging, etc. lengthwise or to regulate their length or tension.
souwester-
humidor- an airtight container for keeping cigars or tobacco moist.
sextant- an instrument with a graduated arc of 60° and a sighting mechanism, used for measuring the angular distances between objects and especially for taking altitudes in navigation and surveying.
baize- a coarse, typically green woollen material resembling felt, used for covering billiard and card tables.
windfall- an apple or other fruit blown down from a tree or bush by the wind.
Section 20
tendrils-
magnesium- the chemical element of atomic number 12, a silver-white metal of the alkaline earth series. It is used to make strong lightweight alloys, and is also used in flash bulbs and pyrotechnics, as it burns with a brilliant white flame.
conjuring- the performance of tricks which are seemingly magical, typically involving sleight of hand
travois- a type of sledge formerly used by North American Indians to carry goods, consisting of two joined poles pulled by a horse or dog.
pruned-
Section 21
commune- a group of people living together and sharing possessions and responsibilities
FIXsheaveFIX-
cognate- (of a word) having the same linguistic derivation as another (e.g. English father, German Vater, Latin pater)
imponderable- a factor that is difficult or impossible to estimate or assess
dolmen- a megalithic tomb with a large flat stone laid on upright ones, found chiefly in Britain and France.
oracle- a priest or priestess acting as a medium through whom advice or prophecy was sought from the gods in classical antiquity.
moldering-
FIXsloeFIX-
lampblack- a black pigment made from soot.
entable-
FIXricketFIX-
congealing-
bollard- a short post used to prevent traffic from entering an area.
gantry-cane-
suture- a stitch or row of stitches holding together the edges of a wound or surgical incision
Section 22
lee- the sheltered side of something; the side away from the wind
askew- not in a straight or level position
armature- the rotating coil or coils of a dynamo or electric motor.
FIXsloughedFIX-
incinerate- destroy (something, especially waste material) by burning
crozzled-
ensepulchred-
tabernacle- (in biblical use) a fixed or movable dwelling, typically of light construction.
hagmoss-
counterspectacle-
hydroptic-
hydrangea- a shrub or climbing plant with rounded or flattened flowering heads of small florets, native to Asia and America.
isthmus- a narrow strip of land with sea on either side, forming a link between two larger areas of land.
prophet- a person regarded as an inspired teacher or proclaimer of the will of God
loess- a loosely compacted yellowish-grey deposit of wind-blown sediment of which extensive deposits occur e.g. in eastern China and the American Midwest.
bandolier- a shoulder belt with loops or pockets for cartridges.
skirmish- an episode of irregular or unpremeditated fighting, especially between small or outlying parts of armies or fleets
stoven-
wimpled-
torsional-
vermiculate-
